Agilent T-plus
Turbo Pumps Linked User Software




User Manual
Rev. 1.1
10/2011
Notices                                  Warranty                                  contract clause. Use, duplication or
                                                                                   disclosure of Software is subject to
                                         The material contained in this            Agilent Technologies’ standard
© Agilent Technologies, Inc. 2011        document is provided “as is,” and is      commercial license terms, and non-
No part of this manual may be            subject to being changed, without         DOD Departments and Agencies of the
reproduced in any form or by any         notice, in future editions. Further, to   U.S. Government will receive no
means (including electronic storage      the maximum extent permitted by           greater than Restricted Rights as
and retrieval or translation into a      applicable law, Agilent disclaims all     defined in FAR 52.227-19(c)(1-2) (June
foreign language) without prior          warranties, either express or implied,    1987). U.S. Government users will
agreement and written consent from       with regard to this manual and any        receive no greater than Limited Rights
Agilent Technologies, Inc. as governed   information contained herein,             as defined in FAR 52.227-14 (June
by United States and international       including but not limited to the          1987) or DFAR 252.227-7015 (b)(2)
copyright laws.                          implied warranties of merchantability     (November 1995), as applicable in any
                                         and fitness for a particular purpose.     technical data.
                                         Agilent shall not be liable for errors
                                         or for incidental or consequential        Trademarks
                                         damages in connection with the
                                         furnishing, use, or performance of        Windows and MS Windows are U.S.
Edition                                  this document or of any information       registered trademarks of Microsoft
Edition 10/2011                          contained herein. Should Agilent and      Corporation.
                                         the user have a separate written
Printed in ITALY                                                                   Safety Notices
                                         agreement with warranty terms
                                         covering the material in this
                                         document that conflict with these
Agilent Technologies Italia S.p.A.                                                    CAUTION
                                         terms, the warranty terms in the
Vacuum Products Division                 separate agreement shall control.         A CAUTION notice denotes a hazard.
Via F.lli Varian, 54                                                               It calls attention to an operating
10040 Leinì (TO)                         Technology Licenses                       procedure, practice, or the like that, if
                                                                                   not correctly performed or adhered to,
ITALY                                    The hardware and/or software
                                                                                   could result in damage to the product
                                         described in this document are
                                                                                   or loss of important data. Do not
                                         furnished under a license and may be
                                                                                   proceed beyond a CAUTION notice
                                         used or copied only in accordance
                                                                                   until the indicated conditions are fully
                                         with the terms of such license.
                                                                                   understood and met.
                                         Restricted Rights Legend
                                         If software is for use in the                WARNING
                                         performance of a U.S. Government
                                         prime contract or subcontract,            A WARNING notice denotes a
                                         Software is delivered and licensed as     hazard. It calls attention to an
                                         “Commercial computer software” as         operating procedure, practice, or the
                                         defined in DFAR 252.227-7014 (June        like that, if not correctly performed
                                         1995), or as a “commercial item” as       or adhered to, could result in
                                         defined in FAR 2.101(a) or as             personal injury or death. Do not
                                         “Restricted computer software” as         proceed beyond a WARNING notice
                                         defined in FAR 52.227-19 (June 1987)      until the indicated conditions are
                                         or any equivalent agency regulation or    fully understood and met.


                                                                          Agilent T-plus User Manual / Rev. 1.1
                                                                                Preface



Preface
                 The Agilent T-plus (Turbo Pumps Linked User Software) is the new
                 communication, control and monitoring user software for Agilent
                 Turbomolecular Pumps and all the other Agilent products provided
                 by the Agilent Window Serial Protocol.
                 In T-plus, you can simultaneously control and drive one or more
                 Turbo Pumps connected to a PC through an RS232 or an RS485 serial
                 communication and by an easy User Interface you can totally control
                 your Vacuum Pumps.
                 Auto recognising of the connected Pumps, Description of each
                 command always on screen, Different behaviour of the User Interface
                 according to the Pump Status are only some of the new features
                 developed in order to get easy the approach to Pumps settings and to
                 reduce the number of steps during Pumps configuration.
                 Moreover, special care was taken during Graphical User Interface
                 developing in order to create an application similar to very well-
                 known User Interfaces (similar to Microsoft® Windows®
                 Applications) in order to obtain a real User Friendly application and
                 to reduce the user learning time.
                 Agilent T-plus software also includes several options like Data
                 Logging, Chart Representation and Network Configuration in order
                 to help you quickly configure your Vacuum devices and to check in
                 every moment your Vacuum System Status.
                 An exhaustive Help online is also included in the software so that the
                 user has a really complete environment easy to learn and always
                 near to customer satisfaction.




Agilent T-plus User Manual / Rev. 1.1                                                    3
Preface



Contents
           Preface         iii

           Getting started 1
               CD Contents and System Requirements 2
               Set Up procedure   3
               Agilent Pumps Connection   4

           Instructions for Use   5
               The Main Window: pump list 6
                       Auto-recognizing System6
                       Pump Controls and Broadcast Commands 7
                       Serial Tools    7
                       Help and About 7
               The Single Pump Control Panel 8
                       The Window List    9
                       Pump Status and Configuration 9
                       The Single Pump Control Panel Menus     10
               Add readings to Log and tracks to Graph 11
                       Readings Window 11
                       Log Option     12
                       Save and Load Readings List 12
                       Data Plotting 13

           Agilent Technologies – Vacuum Products Division Info     14




iv                                            Agilent T-plus User Manual / Rev. 1.1
                                        Preface




Agilent T-plus User Manual / Rev. 1.1        5
                             Agilent T-plus User Manual




1
Getting started
CD Contents and System Requirements 2
Set Up procedure 3
Agilent Pumps Connection 4




                                                     1
1   Getting started
    CD Contents and System Requirements



CD Contents and System Requirements
              In the Agilent T-plus CD you will find:
                 The Installation Kit of the Agilent T-plus software
                 The Installation Kit of the software Serial Address Configurator
                  (tool adapted to configure RS485 network)
                 The Installation Kit of the old Varian communication software
                  (Navigator Sw 2.2)*
                 A copy of this help in PDF format
              To install the T-plus software you need a PC with the following
              minimum requirements:
                 Pentium II or higher processor
                 Microsoft Windows 98 or later operating system
                 64 MB of RAM (128 MB recommended)
                 Hard-disk space required: 20 MB
                 VGA or higher-resolution monitor
                 CD-ROM drive
                 Mouse
                 RS232 or RS485 COM Port




2                                                  Agilent T-plus User Manual / Rev. 1.1
                                           Agilent T-plus User ManualGetting started   1




Set Up procedure
                 Insert the CD into the CD Rom Drive on your Computer and when the
                 AutoRun program starts (if it doesn’t open the Explore Window and
                 click on StartScreen.exe in your CD) this window appears on your
                 monitor.




                 You can:
                    Explore the CD content (see the paragraph CD Contents and
                     System Requirements)
                    Visit our web site on www.agilent.com/chem/vacuum (where you
                     can find some more information about all the Vacuum products
                     and services)
                    Install the Agilent T-plus program (and follow the instructions
                     appearing on your screen)
                 According to default settings the T-plus program will be installed
                 under your Programs Folder in the directory Agilent T-plus and the
                 group Programs/Agilent T-plus will be created in your Start menu..




Agilent T-plus User Manual / Rev. 1.1                                                  3
1   Getting started
    Agilent Pumps Connection



Agilent Pumps Connection
               The T-plus is able to communicate by an RS232 or an RS485 network
               to Agilent Pump Controller provided of the Agilent Window Serial
               Protocol (please refer to your product Handbook to see if it’s
               compatible with this protocol). With this software you can
               simultaneously connect more than one Pump Controllers or Pump
               networks to different COM ports on your PC; for instance if you have
               a computer with two RS232 COM Ports and one RS485 COM Port you
               can simultaneously connect two Pumps to the two RS232 port and up
               to 32 other Pumps to the RS485 Port, then you can drive all them at
               the same time using the T-plus software.
                  To set an RS232 communication please use an RS232 straight
                   cable and connect it to the Serial Connector on your Pump
                   Controller and a COM Port on your PC.
                  To set an RS485 network you need to do two steps:
                         o     Connect the pump one by one (by an RS232 or RS485
                               communication) and using the Serial Address
                               Configurator program (provided in the CD) assign a
                               different serial address for each Pump Controller.
                         o     Refer to the controller handbook to see the pin out of
                               the Serial Connector on your Pump Controller and
                               create a cable to connect with the right pins your
                               RS485 COM Port on your computer and all the Pump
                               Controllers.


               Setting your RS485 COM Port, please remember that all the Agilent
               products always use a two wires half-duplex RS485 communication.




4                                                    Agilent T-plus User Manual / Rev. 1.1
                                                                Agilent T-plus User Manual   2




                                    2
                                    Instructions for Use
                                    The Main Window: pump list        6
                                        Auto-recognizing System       6
                                        Pump Controls and Broadcast Commands           7
                                        Serial Tools   7
                                        Help and About      7
                                    The Single Pump Control Panel 8
                                        The Window List 9
                                        Pump Status and Configuration 9
                                        The Single Pump Control Panel Menus       10
                                    Add readings to Log and tracks to Graph 11
                                        Readings Window 11
                                        Log Option     12
                                        Save and Load Readings List       12
                                        Data Plotting 13




Agilent T-plus User Manual / Rev. 1.1                                                        5
2   Instructions for Use
    The Main Window: pump list



The Main Window: pump list
               The T-plus software shows a list of all the controllers connected to
               network on screen.




      Auto-recognizing System
               At the Start Up the T-plus software search on all the PC COM Ports
               available the presence of Agilent Pumps. The system automatically
               recognizes the serial settings (COM Port, RS232 or RS485
               communication, eventually the serial address) and the Pump
               Controllers connected to the PC and shows a list of all the controllers
               connected to network on screen.
               Moreover for each pumps T-plus shows the Pump Status (Ramp,
               Normal Operation, Stop,…), the electrical power, the excitation
               frequency, the bearing temperature and the Controller Functionality
               mode (Serial or Remote).
               When a Pump controller is disconnected by the system the software
               recognizes this event, scans again the network and updates the
               visualization on screen. When the user connects a new pump he must
               also click on the button “New Net Scan” and the software launches
               again the Auto-recognizing function and update the Pumps List.




6                                                  Agilent T-plus User Manual / Rev. 1.1
                                                                 Instructions for Use   2
                                                         The Main Window: pump list



        Pump Controls and Broadcast Commands
                 Selecting a row in the pump list the two buttons in the lower side of
                 the window “Serial/Remote” and “Start/Stop” configure themselves
                 according to pump status to command the single selected pump (for
                 instance if the pump is in serial mode only the remote button is
                 enabled and vice versa with the pump in remote mode). If you want
                 to command simultaneously all the pumps in the pumps list you can
                 use the commands present in the menu Broadcast Command where
                 you can either start or stop all the pumps or set all the pumps either
                 in remote or in serial mode.




        Serial Tools
                 By this menu the user can change the serial Settings or Choose the
                 Baudrate:
                 In the first case the T-plus open a new window adapted to change
                 serial settings as RS232 or RS485, the baudrate and the Serial
                 Address (only for the RS485 serial networks). Please remember to
                 connect always the pumps one by one to change serial settings.
                 In the second case you can select the list of baudrates the T-plus has
                 to use to find by the Auto-recognizing procedure Agilent pumps (the
                 default is 9600 bit/s because it’s the default of the Agilent Protocol).




        Help and About
                 Clicking on the ? you’ll be able to obtain some more information
                 about T-plus and Agilent Vacuum Products:
                    Help: Open the Help on line (not yet available on T-plus beta
                     release)
                    About: Open the about window. It is useful to find the T-plus
                     release number and some information about Agilent (telephone
                     numbers, addresses, email and so on).


Agilent T-plus User Manual / Rev. 1.1                                                       7
2   Instructions for Use
    The Single Pump Control Panel



The Single Pump Control Panel
               Double clicking on a Pump name in the pumps list or clicking on the
               button Open Control Panel the Single Pump Control Panel of the
               selected pump in the pumps list appears on screen:




               By this window you have the complete control of every pump (one a
               time) you find in the pumps list in the Main Window and here you
               can change or see pump settings, check status and parameters,
               configure a log or a plot and obviously give commands.



8                                                 Agilent T-plus User Manual / Rev. 1.1
                                                                 Instructions for Use   2
                                                      The Single Pump Control Panel



        The Window List
                 On the left side you’ll have the whole set of commands, settings,
                 options and parameters described in the Controller Handbook at the
                 section Windows Meaning. All these commands are divided into
                 different groups according to their meanings; for example in the
                 group Reading you will find all the parameters you can read from the
                 controller (Voltage, Current, Temperature, Power;…), in the group
                 Configuration you can choose the most important settings of the
                 pump (Interlock type, Cooling Type, Soft Start Enable or not;…) in
                 the group Valves you’ll have the settings and commands about Purge
                 and Vent and so on for each different group.
                 Clicking on a group you’ll obtain the list of the commands present in
                 that group. If you click on each command you’ll obtain a short
                 description of each command about its meaning, possible values,
                 units and if it can be only read or written.
                 Some parameters can be changed only according to the pump status
                 (for instance you can only change the soft start when the pump is in
                 serial mode and is stopped); T-plus moreover manages also this
                 situation enabling or not the possibility to write in a field according
                 to the pump status.




        Pump Status and Configuration
                 In this zone the software shows the most important parameters of the
                 pumps and the pump status in order the user can always have a
                 quickly idea of his system status.




Agilent T-plus User Manual / Rev. 1.1                                                      9
2    Instructions for Use
     The Single Pump Control Panel


        The Single Pump Control Panel Menus
                   File/Load Readings: open a Reading Window with a Readings
                    List previously saved (see the section Save and Load Window
                    Settings).
                   Tools/Save Global Windows Status: save a file with all the
                    controller parameters in order to create a complete image of the
                    controller status and settings. This file may be useful for Agilent
                    Technical Support to analyze the Vacuum Pump Status.
                   Tools/View Diagnostic Data List: opens a window with a list of
                    the last controller fails with the relative status. You can also save
                    it in file. This function is supported just in some Agilent
                    controller; please view in your handbook if it is enabled
                   Tools/Enter Authentication Code : in case of direct assistance at
                    the customer site Agilent technicians can insert a password to
                    read some parameters reserved to technical support.




10                                                   Agilent T-plus User Manual / Rev. 1.1
                                                                 Instructions for Use   2
                                             Add readings to Log and tracks to Graph



Add readings to Log and tracks to Graph
                 Clicking with the right button of the mouse on a field in the window
                 list you can add this field to the Readings Window (see next section)
                 or (if this field can be plotted) to the Graph Window (see the data
                 plotting section).




        Readings Window




Agilent T-plus User Manual / Rev. 1.1                                                   11
2    Instructions for Use
     Add readings to Log and tracks to Graph




                The reading window plots till 10 different fields (numeric readings,
                commands, status, settings) and continuously shows their values on
                the screen. You can add new fields right-clicking on the window list
                in the Single Pump Control Panel Window and remove it from the
                Window right-clicking on the readings list on the Reading Window.




        Log Option
                Clicking on the menu Data Logger/Show Data Log Dialog a new panel
                appears on the bottom side of the window. Through this panel you
                can log all the data showed in the readings list choosing the
                destination file of the Log and start and stop the log (if you start and
                stop more times without changing the destination file the system
                appends different log session to the same file). You can also add some
                notes to each registration The log file is a table in ASCII format
                compatible with Microsoft Excel, Matlab and the most important
                signal analyzer programs.




        Save and Load Readings List
                When you have created a Readings Window with its Readings List
                you can save it in order you can load it in a second time without
                creating it again. To save the readings list you have to click on the
                menu File/Save this configuration whereas to load it you must click
                on the menu File/Load Readings in the Single Pump Control Panel
                Window.




12                                                  Agilent T-plus User Manual / Rev. 1.1
                                                                Instructions for Use   2
                                            Add readings to Log and tracks to Graph



        Data Plotting




                 The Graph window plots till 8 different tracks allocable on two
                 different Y axes and continuously shows their timing trend on the
                 screen. You can add new fields right-clicking on the window list in
                 the Single Pump Control Panel Window. The Graph window is
                 completely sizable and it has axes limits completely configurable.
                 Moreover for each track you can choose colour and Y axis (primary
                 or secondary).




Agilent T-plus User Manual / Rev. 1.1                                                  13
Agilent Technologies – Vacuum Products Division Info
Agilent Technologies has Vacuum Products manufacturing plants in Italy and in USA.


Italy,
Agilent Technologies Italia S.p.A.
Via F.lli Varian 54
10040 Leinì, (Torino) - Italy
Tel:     (39) 011 997 9 111
Fax:     (39) 011 997 9 350


USA,
Agilent Technologies, Inc.
121 Hartwell Avenue
Lexington, MA 02421 - USA
Tel:     (781) 861 7200
Fax:     (781) 860 5437


You can also contact Technical Support at the following Phone numbers:
Toll Free Number for North America:          1 (800) 882 7426
Toll Free Number for Europe:                 00 (800) 234 234 00


Or writing to vpt-customercare@agilent.com
For any information about all our products visit our web site at
www.agilent.com/chem/vacuum
